[Getting started][Feature flags] Update FAQ (#6563)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/feature-flags/common-questions.mdx

---
title: Troubleshooting and FAQs
---

## Why is my feature flag not working as expected?

Here's a list of suggestions to troubleshoot your flag:

### 1. Check your flag evaluation on the feature flags tab

Check the **feature flags tab** on [the persons page](https://app.posthog.com/persons) for your specific person.

![Persons feature flag tab](../../images/docs/feature-flags/persons-feature-flag-tab.png)

- If the flag is shown as disabled here, check the "match evaluation" column to know the understand why.
- If the flag is shown as enabled here, there may be a problem in your code. Double-check the steps to [add feature flag code](/docs/feature-flags/adding-feature-flag-code).

### 2. Check you're calling `identify()` before fetching the flag

If you're [identifying]((/docs/product-analytics/identify)) users, they may see a different value for a feature flag before and after you call `identify()`. 

> Thus to ensure they experience consistent behavior, ensure you call `identify()` before fetching the feature flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure they experience consistent behavior, check that you call `identify()` before evaluating the feature flag.
```
Avoiding saying ensure twice

### 3. An ad-blocker may be blocking calls

Check if an ad-blocker is interfering with PostHog calls. If this is the case, you can fix this by [deploying a reverse proxy](/docs/advanced/proxy).

> ### 4. User or group properties may not have been ingested yet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 4. User or group properties may not be ingested yet
```

> If your [release conditions](/docs/feature-flags/creating-feature-flags#release-conditions) depend on user or group properties, and you immediately fetch the feature flag after updating any of these properties, the properties may not be ingested in time to calculate the correct flag value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your [release conditions](/docs/feature-flags/creating-feature-flags#release-conditions) depend on user or group properties, and you immediately evaluate the feature flag after updating them, the properties may not be ingested in time to calculate the correct flag value.
```
Avoiding saying properties too many times.

> In this case, when making your `getFeatureFlag()` call, you can manually include in these properties in the method arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, when making your `getFeatureFlag()` call, you can manually include in these properties as arguments.
```
Could we link to an example of this?

Author: Good idea. I'll add it in https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/pull/6561, since this is where I add that code

### 5. Raise a support ticket

> If none of the above steps resolve your issue, you can [raise a support ticket](https://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal) to see if we can help debug.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If none of the above resolve your issue, you can [raise a support ticket](https://app.posthog.com/home#supportModal) to see if we can help debug.
```

import FAQFalseOrNoneEvents from "./snippets/faq-false-or-none-events.mdx"

<FAQFalseOrNoneEvents />

> ## How can I reduce the latency of feature flag requests on my server?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How can I reduce the latency of feature flag requests?
```
Won't necessarily just be on the server.

> Evaluating feature flags requires making a request to PostHog. However, you can [evaluating feature flags locally](/docs/feature-flags/bootstrapping-and-local-evaluation#server-side-local-evaluation) instead – without having to make a request to PostHog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Evaluating feature flags requires making a request to PostHog. However, you can [evaluate feature flags locally](/docs/feature-flags/bootstrapping-and-local-evaluation#server-side-local-evaluation) instead – without having to make a request to PostHog.
```

Reviewer: Maybe also mention client-side flags are already locally evaluated.

Reviewer 2: cached, not locally evaluated, as local evaluation = fresh results computed right now, whereas client side they return immediately, but can be very stale, depending on when you last reloaded them

### 1. Reduce client-side feature flag requests

In our [JavaScript web](/docs/libraries/js) and [React Native](/docs/libraries/react-native) SDKs, you can reduce the cost of feature flags by reducing the number of requests your client makes to fetch feature flag values for your users.

1. Using the the [advanced configuration](/docs/libraries/js#advanced-configuration), set `advanced_disable_feature_flags_on_first_load` to `true`. This stops automatically requesting feature flags whenever a page loads. This is useful when you're immediately calling `posthog.identify()` anyway, which requests flags again.

2. Using the the [advanced configuration](/docs/libraries/js#advanced-configuration), set `advanced_disable_feature_flags` to `true`. This stops PostHog automatically requesting feature flags. Instead, use [bootstrapping](/docs/feature-flags/bootstrapping) to load flags exactly once.

### 2. Reduce local evaluation costs

If you're using [local evaluation](/docs/feature-flags/local-evaluation), your bill may be high because of too many requests to fetch feature flag definitions. By default, PostHog fetches these every 30 seconds.

> Each request charges 10 credits, so assuming your server is constantly running and making 2 requests per minute, this will charge `10 * 2 * 60 * 24 * 30 = 864,000 credits` each month.

Reviewer: Wow, this is a lot 🤔 intimidatingly a lot. How much is free allocation?

Reviewer 2: a million for new users

You can reduce this by increasing the [feature flag polling interval](/docs/feature-flags/local-evaluation#step-2-initialize-posthog-with-your-personal-api-key) when initializing PostHog. For example, every 5 minutes instead of every 30 seconds.

> The drawback of this approach is that whenever you make an update to a feature flag using the PostHog UI, it takes 5 minutes (instead of 30) for that change to roll to your server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The drawback of this approach is that whenever you make an update to a feature flag using the PostHog UI, it takes 5 minutes (instead of 30 seconds) for that change to roll to your server.
```

> **Note:** Do not use local evaluation in an edge / lambda environment, as this initializes a PostHog instance on every call, which can raise your bill drastically. It's best to use regular flag evaluation instead.

> ### 3. Disable sending `Feature flag called` events

Reviewer 2: We don't charge for these events anymore, so can we remove this? :)

Reviewer 2: oh, and keep it under the separate question, around sending too many events

Author: The "too many events" question has been removed. Any particular reason to include this if it doesn't contribute to billing? I think we should just remove this entirely

Reviewer 2: Fair enough, makes sense 👍

Reviewer 2: this text is still here though, I'm assuming you'll remove it?

```go
enabledVariant, err := client.GetFeatureFlag(
            FeatureFlagPayload{
                Key:        "flag-key",
                DistinctId: "distinct_id_of_your_user",
                SendFeatureFlagEvents: BoolPtr(false),
            })

if enabledVariant == "variant-key" { // replace 'variant-key' with the key of your variant
    // Do something differently for this user
}
```

```react-native
posthog.getFeatureFlag('flag-key',{
    send_event: false
})
```

```ios
posthog.getFeatureFlag('my-flag', options:["send_event": false])
```

```android
PostHog.with(this).getFeatureFlag(
    "flag-key",
    null, // Optional. Default value
    new HashMap<String, Object>() {{
        put("send_event", true);
}});
```

</MultiLanguage>

**Note:** This has a few consequences:

1. The feature flag's usage tab in PostHog will stop showing events, since we can't track them anymore.
2. [Experiments](/docs/experiments) that depend on [trend goals](/docs/experiments/creating-an-experiment#experiment-goal) won't work since we use this event to calculate relative exposures Convert your trend goals to funnel goals instead.

## Why do feature flags sometimes cause my app to flicker?

> By default, fetching flags from our servers takes about 100-500ms. During this time, the flag is disabled. When the request is complete, the flag is updated. This may be the cause of the flickering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, evaluating flags from our servers takes about 100-500ms. During this time, the flag is disabled. When the request is complete, the flag is updated. This may be the cause of the flickering.
```
